As we embarked on our journey into the wacky world of special relativity, we began by putting together
a seemingly infallible, absolute conception of the universe.
All right.
Well, we were trying to do is we were trying to bridge the gap between almost an infinite set of perceptions
of the universe, right?
We were trying to have somebody experience the easily translated into somebody else's such that we have
that this absolute conception of the universe, right?
This is what I've been repeating multiple times as we went through all these different concepts in special
relativity.
Now what I want to do is I want to take what we initially established, which is known as the Galilean
transformation, which I have written up right here and correct the flaws that were inherent in that
approach.
What do we discover with the Galilean transformation was we see right here is that pretty straightforward
mapping, which helps us translate experiences very easily and seamlessly into different perceptions
of the universe?
And that allows us to agree on one single idea and allow us to communicate or talk about different experiences
and different reference frames.
But what we found is that the Galileo transformation is nothing more than a limited snapshot of a bigger,
fuller picture, right?
The Galileo transformation is only true in a Newtonian sense, when the speed of a reference frame is
very low compared to the speed of light.
However, what we found throughout this course in all the different concepts we've studied quite thoroughly,
is that when we start traveling close to the speed of light, this transformation completely and utterly
falls apart.
And when you're doing physics, any kind of law, any kind of transformation or any conception of the
universe is only valid if it can encapsulate and describe every kind of situation that arises right
in front of you.
So what we need to do is we're going to we're going to need to correct this so that it accounts for
those experiences and those weird phenomena that arise at high speeds close to the speed of light.
OK, so what we're going to do in this video is we're going to finally take that limited snapshot and
allow to encapsulate and cover these experiences, these situations.
OK.
And the way in which we're going to bridge the gap between an infinite set of perceptions of the universe
is we're going to take the foundational principles we just arrived in the previous few videos.
These are the concepts of time dilation and length contraction.
In essence, they're going to form the foundational support that is going to hold this bridge up as
we erect the bridge between these different varying perceptions of the universe.
OK?
These are going to form the foundational ideas that are going to hold it together and allow us to to
finally put together that nice bridge.
So we get that most conception of the universe that encompasses everything that can transpire right
in front of us.
How are we going to do that?
We're going to do that by revisiting what turns it fill up have been working on right exactly how we
did it just with the galley and transformation.
And that's why I want to provide a brief overview of the result that came out of it and also what they
did.
So when we derive that what we had, we had Philip standing on the Earth.
We had Terence in a boxcar, the train.
In essence, that was going pretty fast to the right with a speed.
So we're going to the same situation.
But in this scenario, Terence is going to travel close to the speed of light.
And as we would expect, we're going to see weird phenomena arise, such as again, time, elation and
traction.
But this time we know how to describe it properly.
So the correct mapping the correct bridge should fall out and we should be good to go.
OK.
So the situation that's going to happen is initially Terence, who has reference Frame s prime, he's
going to have his axes attached to the back of the train car ex-prime y prime and at time T equals zero,
which they both agree on.
He's going to hit the gas.
He's going to instantly accelerate at a velocity equal to maybe like point nine times the speed of light
point nine C.
So we'll put this guy in here zero point nine C and then fill up whose reference frame s has an X and
Y.
Axes he's going to stay at the organo and terrorist is going to fly straight to the right.
OK.
During this exercise.
What's going to happen is an event is going to transpire and they're both going to record their experience
of that event.
Now what we know is that each individual's conception of that event may be different.
But if we can account for all these different phenomena and try to translate between them right, we
can get this universal conception that both Terrance and Phillip agree upon.
OK, so let's run through the experiment.
Let's see what they can do right now when we do this.
There are two important things we want to offer.
First, want to make sure that our conception of the space and time are correctly accounted for.
That's going to be taken care of by we discover with time, elation and length contraction.
And secondly, and any kind of theory, any kind of mapping we come up with must account for the gallantry
and transformation at small speeds.
In other words, when we start going at lower speeds that are close to the speed of light, it should
converge upon this result that we had.
So we'll be doing those checks.
And if it does agree with that, that's going to strengthen the theory come up with and make us feel
more confident that the result we've generated is valid.
OK, so the first thing we're going to tackle is the conception of space and how length contraction
is going to slightly alter this mapping of the Galilean transformation that we have here.
That's one element that we have to account for as we erect this bridge between two different perceptions.
The other one is going to be their conception of time, which again is taking care of my time dilation.
OK?
But what these two pillars, these two foundational supports?
It's going to hold that that bridge afloat.
It's going to allow it to stay in place and it's not going to crumble and come crashing down and leave
us sat out of luck.
OK, so let's take care of the space conception first.
OK.
So.
Well, we're trying to relate to this conception of space to tell us what we're going to do is fill
up.
It's going to say OK when he speeds off at a concert velocity v.
I know that the boxcar is going to be a distance v t again, exactly what we've done previously.
I mean, refresh your memory that x is the Delta T since we're gonna be.
This guy gives you that distance.
And then you have to add on Terrence's conception, which is from the back of the train all the way
to the event.
OK.
And that's going to happen again to sort of bored these experiments.
So they're going to make it a little exciting, a little fun.
What test does is he lights a firecracker inside the train car, and when that blows up, it's going
to leave a mark on a train such that you can measure from the back of the train to that that mark on
the train.
So.
Whenever you're dealing with flies, when you're dealing with space and you're doing a length contraction
problem.
What I said in the previous video is first, you want to be sure to designate a certain length as the
proper length, and the proper length was always defined as the length in the resting frame where the
body is not moving because a moving back body is observed to be contracted.
Right.
So in this case, the distance from the back of the car to the firecracker has to be the appropriate
length because in this reference frame, it's not moving.
But in Philip's reference frame, this length is moving so that body, that moving body will be observed
to be contracted.
That is the important key, that designation.
So we're going to try and have Philip over here.
He's unhappy.
He's always doing the the math, the physics, writing everything down here.
He's tired of doing this stuff.
He's got a little frown on his face.
He's going to try and figure out what turns this conception of space is relative to his arm.
OK, so to do that right, what we have here is x prime as X was that distance minus v t right v t plus
x prime gives you x simple geometric idea, but their conceptions of space.
They all agree on that because from their perception, experiences or rather events arise in a different
fashion.
So here's the important key.
What Philip is going to do is he's going to say, OK, I'm trying to figure out X Prime and I'm going
to use X, which is measured in his frame.
This is his measurement of where the event occurs at a time T.
So this guy is measured in his reference frames and v t he's going to take his own time.
He's a stopwatch.
So that means that v t is also measured in this.
So this quantity that is going to use to calculate X prime, this is the key idea.
X prime.
So it's going to be x minus v t.
This is a measurement in his reference frame.
OK, so.
ex-Prime.
He's going to report the contract at length.
This is not ex-Prime, because his conception of space is different than Terence's conception, right,
so this has to account for length contract and this is why this is the supporting idea for the bridge.
OK, so this is not merely ex-prime, it's it's prime over can either go over that again quickly because
this is very important if you don't.
Comprehend this idea, then the entire derivation falls apart again.
Philip is trying to measure Terrence's conception of the distance from the back of the car to firecracker
what he's going to do.
He's going to use Measurements X and VTi.
That are measured.
In reference frame s, if he's doing that, his conception of time or his conception of life is the
light in reference frame, as which means he's trying to get the length of a moving body and a moving
body is observed to be contracted.
So.
He's going to take the proper length L, not the by Ghana.
Basically, the contract at length, in essence, all we're doing is we're saying this is sort of like
Elmont over again.
That's all we did.
That's this guy right here.
OK, so if we take this, what happens is.
We get X is equal to X, prime is equal to gamma x minus the 18, and then so this gives us a mapping
where it fill up those measurements.
You can multiply by the Lorentz factor and you can say that I translate my language, my conception,
my experience in terms is very simply by multiplying by.
That seems to jive well for intuition because again, it's very similar to what we saw with the last
contraction and elation.
OK.
So.
As I said, in order to do this properly, we must make sure that the bridge we erect accounts for space
and time correctly space time, but also that it gels well with the Galilean transformation in certain
situations, particularly when the velocity is not close to the speed of light.
OK, so we have here ex prime is equal to gamma.
That's at spontaneity, very similar to the Galilean transformation.
Now let's question what happens when a vastly is much less than see if V is much less than see.
What do we know?
Well, we know the Galilean transformation, rather, the sorry about the Lorenz factor is no more than
one over the square root of one minus v oversee the square.
So B is much less than C.
This guy is essentially zero.
It's super, super small.
And this becomes approximately one.
OK, so in that situation.
We can assert that JAMA is approximately equal to one.
And when we make that assertion.
This guy, prime, it's people to Gamma X minus VCE.
Is nothing more than ex prime equals one times that where does is just this.
And if we compare that up to their.
We're pretty excited because it converges upon this, which means that our theory, our idea came out
pretty accurately right at Charles Hall for our intuition.
So that's good, OK.
So.
At this point, we've taken care of space.
Our conception of space using our foundational principle of length contraction.
So we have up the left portion of the bridge erected next.
What we want to do is take a look at their conception of time, make sure that we account for properly
of time dilation and then figure out how we can correct this idea here that time.
How we suppose that time was equivalent between different perceptions of events.
Even though that is not quite true, that time may tick differently, depending upon your reference.
Let's do that next.